Hello, my name is Sharon Calder and I work for Mencap but I've also been the lead facilitator
of Masquerade and this is my ninth year of doing that and I'm here to chat with Robert.
So Robert, do you want to introduce yourself? What's your name?
My name is Robert.
Brilliant, thank you Robert.
And it's Monday the 26th of May 2021.
No, it's not Monday.
Thank you Robert.
It's Wednesday.
It's a good job you're here.
Wednesday the 26th of May 2021.
Brilliant.
So we're here today to talk about Masquerade.
So Robert, you have dipped in and out of Masquerade, I would say, the whole time I've been running it.
But I think for about the last three years you've become like a proper Masquerade member
and you come to all the Wednesdays.
So what is it about Masquerade? What do you like best about Masquerade?
Masquerade, yeah.
Out of the things that we do, like let's try and remember what we do.
Can you remember what we do?
We did...
We do acting.
Acting, we did musicals.
So we've done loads of singing, yeah.
We've done grief.
Cats.
Lion King.
Yeah, Lion King, yeah. And you've had a big part in all of them.
Yeah.
So what is it about performing that you enjoy?
What is it about performing that you enjoy?
It's just being me.
Oh, it's being you.
Yeah.
Oh, that's a great answer.
So you like standing on the stage being you.
Yeah.
And do you enjoy having the audience there?
Ah.
So Lamvattlin really loves Masquerade and values it, the people in Lamvattlin.
And performing for all the people of Lamvattlin.
Yeah.
So we do different performances, don't we?
We do St. Muttlin's Day.
Can you remember what we do on St. Muttlin's Day usually?
We gather in the street.
Oh yeah, the street, yeah.
And we do parading, don't we?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
Where do we parade?
Where do we walk with all our instruments?
Down the street.
Yes, we go down the high street and we go round the back of the houses, don't we?
And what do we do when we're parading?
I don't know.
We usually have...
We have drums and...
Yeah, instruments.
And we just basically make loads of noise.
But it's good fun, isn't it?
It's good fun.
And the people of the town are always really smiley and they always look really happy to see us.
And they always make everyone shush when we walk past.
They switch off, because sometimes there's background music, because it's the festival day.
They always switch it off when we come, so we can make a good big racket.
Now we've also performed at the Myvred Show a couple of times.
Have you been to the Myvred Show with us?
Yes.
Yeah?
Yes, I think you did too.
Possibly the space one.
Oh yeah, the space one, yeah.
Yeah.
Can you remember what we held when we were doing the space shows?
Because the other thing we do in Masquerade is the art, isn't it?
And the making of our props.
Do you remember making all of those planets?
Yeah.
And parading with the planets?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So we did that and we did our show all about...
Can you remember?
No.
Selwyn was the main character.
And he had a helmet on.
Oh yeah.
Could you remember who he was?
The spaceman.
Yes!
Well done, you.
He was the spaceman.
And we talked about the spaceman and how he'd got lost and he had to visit all the different planets.
Yeah.
You remember that one now.
Oh, that's good.
Yeah.
Good.
Can you also remember what happened on the St. Muttlin's Day, Parade Day one day, when
it just poured with rain, where we had to go?
Remember we had to move the performance indoors.
Can you remember where we ended up?
No.
Don't you remember being in the church?
Oh yes.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, because it poured down the rain.
No.
So how did you find that performance in the church?
Good.
It was good, wasn't it?
It was almost like the church was like a theatre space.
And we walked all around it, didn't we?
We walked around all the pews and we used all the different parts of the church.
And we sang,
Here comes the sun, da da da da,
Here comes the sun, I say it's alright,
Do do do do do do do.
Because I know you love music, don't you?
I love music, yeah.
So tell us about your tiny little CD collection.
We've got a lot.
You've got a lot, haven't you?
Yeah.
And in Masquerade we try and use a lot of music.
What's your favourite type of music?
Dunno.
Have a think. I think I remember what your favourite type of music is.
It's country and western.
Yeah, I think you're right. It's country and western, isn't it? Yeah.
We've tried to do a bit of that in Masquerade.
Yeah.
We've tried various other evenings.
So when Masquerade has had to go on Zoom this year, how have you found that?
Good.
Good? Ah, what's been good about that?
Internet's not working.
Or sometimes if the internet's not working it could be a problem. Yeah.
Yeah, because they're a bit slow sometimes when...
You're right. Sometimes we freeze.
Yeah.
But I think you've been especially good at going away in the weeks in between
and thinking about what we're doing, what topic or theme we're doing,
and bringing things to us and then presenting the things.
Can you remember any of the things you've done?
Anything you've brought?
Drawings?
Yeah.
What?
You've brought your baby photos?
Oh, yeah.
Do you remember that?
Oh yeah, and then we did stuff about holidays, didn't we?
Oh, and that was your suggestion, wasn't it? You wanted to talk about holidays.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, we did a whole session on holidays.
That was really good and you brought loads of photos.
Yeah.
That was a great session and everybody really wanted to talk about their holidays.
I think it was because it was the year, last year of Covid, where nobody had a holiday.
So we all wanted to talk about holidays, didn't we, because we were missing them.
Yeah.
So have you found doing it on Zoom... I mean, I suppose you don't have to travel.
You just do it from your own home or your mum's or your house in my smuggling.
Has that been quite good?
Yeah.
So that's been great.
And what about using it as a means of keeping in touch with all your friends in Masquerade?
Yeah.
Because you might not have seen people at all other than that, might you?
No.
So who are the people that you really like working with in Masquerade?
Who makes you laugh most?
Selwyn.
Selwyn, yes.
Michelle.
Michelle, yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
What about Alex and Ryan?
Yeah.
They're good fun, aren't they?
And Angela.
And Angela, yeah.
Yeah, because everyone's always pleased to see each other, aren't they?
We're all pleased to see each other on Zoom.
I don't know if you were there, still there last week, or you might have popped off when we talked about starting to come back together, like outside in real life.
I was there, yeah.
Or were you?
Because most people said they were a bit slightly nervous about it still, weren't they?
Mm-hm.
I don't know how you felt about that.
What?
Were you one of the people who was a bit nervous about it, or were you keen to get back together properly?
I'm a bit nervous about it, yeah.
Yeah.
So.
So we left it that we'd leave it at least another month before we talked about that again.
But it would be nice to see everyone in the flesh.
But I think everyone's quite used to Zooming now, so, you know, that's OK.
So have you got any more ideas for themes or anything you might want us to look at coming up this year?
Do you want to do any more musicals or?
I don't know.
See what happens.
Mm-hm.
OK.
Great.
All right then.
Well, here's some Ascorade coming back as normal, maybe a bit later on in the year.
Yeah.
We'll put on another show.
Mm-hm.
You'll be able to get in your costume.
Do some singing and some dancing.
This just still fits me, eh?
I've got a big fat belly.
It still fits you.
So I've got the Arts Connection Annual Report here, and you and Rhian, especially, are on the front cover.
And Geraint.
And Geraint as well, and you're all in your costumes, and it's in the middle of our show we did about the Greek gods, isn't it?
Yeah.
And do you remember what god you were?
No.
Ares.
Do you remember what he was the god of?
No.
Was he the god of sweetness?
What was he the god of?
The...
He was the god of...
Was he the god of peace?
No.
He was the opposite of peace, so what was he, the god of...
What?
War?
War, yeah.
So what kind of personality did he have?
Do you remember?
No.
Was he quiet and sweet?
What was he then?
Angry.
Angry and loud!
That's right, and I remember specially casting you, Zapp, because you were a sweet, gentle person.
And I thought it might be fun for you to be an angry, loud god of war.
Do you remember what you were doing with the audience?
No.
You were growling at them and stamping your feet!
Oh yeah, yeah.
You remember that, you were very good. Did you enjoy that then?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. So well done for getting on the front cover. That's really great.
I'm tired and runny.
Oh, you're tired now? Well, shall we finish up? It's been lovely to chat to you about Masquerade.
Yeah, it's been lovely, yeah.
Well, thank you, Robert. It's been brilliant to chat to you. And long live Masquerade!